# Kyoto Cabinet D Deimos Bindings

From [Kyoto Cabinet](http://fallabs.com/kyotocabinet/) web site:

Kyoto Cabinet is a library of routines for managing a database. The database is a simple data file containing records, each is a pair of a key and a value. Every key and value is serial bytes with variable length. Both binary data and character string can be used as a key and a value. Each key must be unique within a database. There is neither concept of data tables nor data types. Records are organized in hash table or B+ tree.

The following access methods are provided to the database: storing a record with a key and a value, deleting a record by a key, retrieving a record by a key. Moreover, traversal access to every key are provided. These access methods are similar to ones of the original DBM (and its followers: NDBM and GDBM) library defined in the UNIX standard. Kyoto Cabinet is an alternative for the DBM because of its higher performance.

Each operation of the hash database has the time complexity of "O(1)". Therefore, in theory, the performance is constant regardless of the scale of the database. In practice, the performance is determined by the speed of the main memory or the storage device. If the size of the database is less than the capacity of the main memory, the performance will seem on-memory speed, which is faster than std::map of STL. Of course, the database size can be greater than the capacity of the main memory and the upper limit is 8 exabytes. Even in that case, each operation needs only one or two seeking of the storage device.

Each operation of the B+ tree database has the time complexity of "O(log N)". Therefore, in theory, the performance is logarithmic to the scale of the database. Although the performance of random access of the B+ tree database is slower than that of the hash database, the B+ tree database supports sequential access in order of the keys, which realizes forward matching search for strings and range search for integers. The performance of sequential access is much faster than that of random access.

As the API is based on object-oriented design, the hash database and the the B+ tree database have same methods which inherited from the upper abstract class. Beside them, seven kinds of databases are provided under the same base class. The prototype hash database is powered by the standard container of std::unordered_map. The prototype tree database is powered by the standard container of std::map. The stash database is powered by the original implementation of naive hash map saving memory. The cache hash database is powered by the original implementation of doubly-linked hash map with LRU deletion algorithm. The cache tree database is powered by the cache hash database and provides B+ tree mechanism. The directory hash database is powered by the directory mechanism of the file system and stores records as respective files in a directory. The directory tree database is powered by the directory hash database and provides B+ tree mechanism. All databases have practical utility methods related to transaction and cursor. Programs for command line interface are also included in the package.

Kyoto Cabinet runs very fast. For example, elapsed time to store one million records is 0.9 seconds for the hash database, and 1.1 seconds for the B+ tree database. Moreover, the size of database is very small. For example, overhead for a record is 16 bytes for the hash database, and 4 bytes for the B+ tree database. Furthermore, scalability of Kyoto Cabinet is great. The database size can be up to 8EB (9.22e18 bytes).

Kyoto Cabinet is written in the C++ language, and provided as API of C++, C, Java, Python, Ruby, Perl, and Lua. Kyoto Cabinet is available on platforms which have API conforming to C++03 with the TR1 library extensions. Kyoto Cabinet is a free software licensed under the GNU General Public License. The FOSS License Exception is also provided in order to accommodate products under other free and open source licenses. The Specific FOSS Library Linking Exception is also provided in order to be available in some specific FOSS libraries. On the other hand, a commercial license is also provided. If you use Kyoto Cabinet within a proprietary software, the commercial license is required.
